explain why you had no idea who Michael
Jordan was well basketball wasn't as
Global then as it is now you know so
really the only two teams who got
recognition were the Lakers and the
Celtics because of their obvious robbery
and the two players that we had and um
you know when Michael came onto the
scene I was already back in Philadelphia
um so I really didn't hear about him I
was about 13 14 years old and your guy
was magic well yeah I was Laker big big
Laker fan um you know magic Byron Scott
James Worthy you know the whole crew
describe your reaction when you learned
magic at HIV I was devastated I I didn't
know I didn't understand what it was I I
just knew it was going to stop him from
from doing what he loved to do um so I I
was I was devastated and I had no idea
what was going on so um it was it was it
was a tough day and I mean your parents
said you were missing meals for a week
yeah it was almost as if he was part of
your family because of how much you
idolized him so how emotional uh was
that for you it was extremely difficult
it was extremely I mean it's it's like
you you have your hero and a person that
um that you look up to and all of a
sudden you know he's not there anymore
you can't watch him perform anymore it's
it's it's tough I want to take you back
to when you were growing up your father
Joe uh played eight years in the NBA for
a few teams then eight years
internationally in Italy and other parts
of Europe while he was playing
internationally he brought you your mom
your two sisters along how about the
biggest difference you noticed between
the states uh and Europe just in terms
of Lifestyle you we we didn't live in
any major cities so I think we got the
authenticity of Italy and and and you
know mothers making lasagna from scratch
and you know everybody kind of knowing
everybody and you know it was uh it was
almost as if you we lived in a typical
Italian movie and you know I remember
one time my sister just had a brand new
mountain bike she just got a brand new
bright orange mountain bike so you're
not missing this thing you know what I
mean deal yeah I mean it's a big deal I
mean back then mountain bikes you know
you had to gear ship it's was a big deal
so she we all rode our mountain bikes
and um we went to a store and her
friends she her friend just happen to be
there she met with her friends start
talking to them and forgot she had a
mountain bike she took off with them and
got home and I forgot my mountain bike
it was already too late it was night
time we're going to sleep come back the
next day the mountain bike still sitting
there that's great wasn't chained up or
anything just leaned up against the wall
just sitting there so can you sing uh
one of the songs that the crowd used to
sing for your father oh man they they
had a lot of them they had a lot of them
so most of them I can't repeat okay
because of uh you know the fans over
there extremely passion so you know
things that they can kind of get away
saying in the crowd the NBA won't fly as
much you were pretty much certain from
an early age as a kid that you were
going to be an NBA player um why did you
feel so strongly about that uh yeah I'm
not sure it was even it didn't even seem
like as much that's what you wanted to
do as much that's what you knew you were
going to do well I felt like I was born
to play basketball I mean it's I started
playing at the age of two and I love it
so
um you know when you kind of find that
passion at an early age I mean that's
really the the the goal um is to kind of
find whatever you're passionate about at
an early age and just kind of growing to
it um so but I just love to play the
game and I never ever stopped I just
played all day every day so it just
seemed like a natural progression to
play in the NBA tell why you were uh
scolded at a summer camp once for what
you put on your application for what
your job was going to be well well I
wanted to be an NBA player and and the
counselor you know came to me and he
said well you have to pick something a
little more
realistic that Ang this is realistic to
me this is what I want to do you know
what I mean and and he was like no only
one in whatever million you know players
make it to the NBA took a look around
you look at all these players here you
know everybody wants to be in the NBA I
said well I'm going to be there you know
and As I Grew Older I was like man you
know what if I wasn't such a stubborn
kid kid that really would have trust me
you know for for a person to to Really
um like taking a wet blanket and just
throwing it over a kids you know dreams
I mean it's just uh didn't make any
sense to me when you were 11 did a team
really try and buy you from your parents
yeah yeah yeah what happened yeah well
that's just the system how it you know
that's how it is in in uh in Europe as
it is with soccer I mean if you you
start playing at an early age you play
at Club level because they don't have
school teams like we do here in the
states um and if professional teams
notice you you know they want to
purchase you and then you you grow up in
their Club system and then you
eventually play on their on their Elite
professional level team um and so
parents my parents obviously said
no uh because you were in Europe uh you
weren't able to I guess watch the NBA
games live so uh you had them sent over
on videotape how often would you watch
those video tipes every chance I got I
mean my my grandfather was uh he used to
record games and then he used to send
them out to us and so I would watch him
and you know that's kind of where I
became you know a basketball geek so to
speak because I got a chance to watch
all the players and then you'd go out in
the backyard oh yeah I go out backyard
and try to mimic everything you know let
alone you know I tried to dunk but I
couldn't reach the basket but still you
know in my mind I was dunking for more
clips from this interview visit Graham
Bens singer.com
[Music]